>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we have gone through a lot this week.
We've covered most of
the fundamentals that you'll find
in an introductory data structures and
algorithms class, right?
Mostly like the first class of that
subject, you know what I mean?
So if you think about like a college
course, a data structures and
algorithms course is gonna
be usually two semesters.
So you'll have the first semester and
the second semester.
This is kind of like
a semester's worth of content
of the first introductory lessons, right?
So you might have three or four lessons
that build on each of these topics, right?
So you kinda just took the first
hour of each of those topics.
And there's more to it, however you don't
commonly need to go beyond that if
you're just studying for interviews.
Because most people, honestly,
forget that stuff anyway,
and your interviewer is a person.
So you tend to not have to go beyond that.
But if you did,
I'm gonna give you some next steps of
what are some cool things that
you can learn next, once you
feel comfortable with the fundamentals
we've been covering in this class.
So these are all sort of
building blocks that build,
they work together, that underlie
how everything works right here.
In your computer, on the Internet,
that kind of thing.
So let's talk about next steps.
So the very first day we talked
about object-oriented JavaScript,
you learned how to create a class
in pseudoclassical style.
So the next thing you might wanna
do is learn how to subclass and
extend your classes according to
other object-oriented patterns.
So I would look into that.
You can learn how to
implement classes in ES6.
There's this cool repo that has basically,
has most of the data structures and
the algorithms that we have done
in this class written on ES6.
And they also have some
in regular JavaScript.
So you could check that out and
see how that compares.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Awesome,
so we learned about time complexity.
We were able to estimate,
generally estimate, right,
how fast our algorithms were.
And think about what parts of
them were the slow parts, and
what parts of them were
maybe the first parts.
Next you can do is to keep learning
about computational complexity theory.
And you could take a whole class on this,
and learn about NP-Complete and
all these different ways to estimate
how difficult a problem is.
The other thing you could do is learn how
to calculate time complexity formally,
and write out proofs,
and things like that.
Those are more things that you
could do with time complexity.
Sorting, so we learned elementary sorting,
recursive sortings.
You can learn a non-comparison
sort like Radix sort.
I had the video on over
lunch about Radix sort.
You can learn how to combine
different sorts to create new sorts,
like Timsort is a combination of
insertion sort with merge sort.
And it's the underlying sort for Python.
Most other languages are implementing
either merge sort or
quick sort or both of them under the hood.
So Timsort could be another fun one.
Or you could just learn some other
sorts cuz they have funny names.
Like gnome sort, stooge sort, bogosort.
These are all kind of just silly sorts
that are kinda just silly examples.
And all of these run
slower than bubble sort,
and we already know bubble
sort is really slow.
Bogosort, actually the other
name is stupidsort.
So they're just like Bogosort,
I think they just have random
permutations of each of the input
until finally find one that's sorted.
So you randomly change it, one of them.
>> off screen: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And then you
check it.
>> off screen: My God!
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And then you randomly
change it, and then you check it.
And so it's just a funny example.
>> off screen: Well,
that's one way to do it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
so no one uses it in practice.
The next day we talked about linked lists
and trees, sort of these general trees.
The next steps,
you can learn how to do a prefix tree,
which is used in auto complete.
When you start typing in Google,
that's using a prefix tree.
You can also use it as a solver for
Boggle or Words With Friends or something.
You can use that for that.
If you're lonely you can
create a dialogue tree.
Which is what we use for
when you're interacting with
non-player characters in video games and
you talk to them and they answer you.
That would be a dialogue tree.
You can create a scavenger hunt
game with your linked list.
So that your next, you can only access
to your next by solving some riddle.
It could be a fun game for a linked list.
Also obviously, you can bind trees and
link lists with a bunch of other
algorithms that could be useful.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Binary search trees.
You can balance your binary search
trees using a DSW algorithm.
So you already have your
binary search tree.
It's created.
It's super lopsided.
The DSW algorithm will
help you balance it.
Or If you thought about this ahead of
time, you could just create an AVL tree or
red-black tree, or a splay tree,
which are self balancing.
So as you're adding nodes, it's going to
keep track of how deep it is and balance.
And again,
a balance tree is a tree that doesn't
have a layer that's too deeper
than any of the other layers.
Does that make sense?
The height is not lopsided, so
a balanced tree looks like a triangle.
A unbalanced tree looks like it has like a
little tail somewhere, if you drew it out.
Another thing, the next step could
be comparing a binary tree to binary
to a binary heap, and then taking it
a step further and doing heap sort.
We have exercises for binary heaps and
heap sorts in our algorithm class repo, so
if you have time, you can check that out.
For graphs, graphs are amazing, they are
applied to a bunch of different things.
We learned how to represent them in both
an adjacency matrix and adjacency list.
And then we talked about how
we can explore them [COUGH]
either depth first or breath first.
Those are the main sort of entry
points into graph algorithms.
You could dive into graph theory and
discrete mathematics,
if you really wanna be hardcore.
You can learn topological sort
to figure out dependencies.
Like if you're in college and you wanna
figure out what classes you need to
graduate, in what order, because they all
require whatever, all these classes have
these different requirements,
you can use topological sort for that.
If you wanna calculate shortest
paths between two cities,
Dijkstra's algorithm is really famous for
that.
If you wanna learn how to find
minimum splay trees that are central
to data mining,
you can use Prim's algorithm for that.
And these are just sort of the next steps.
And there's all kinds of branches
that you can go from there, right?
So once you're starting to
find path algorithms, right?
Then from Dijkstra's algorithm,
which is the most famous one,
there's a bunch of different kinds, right?
And you can keep going.
And if you find yourself in Wikipedia,
you can look, you'll say like,
pathfinding algorithms, and
it'll [SOUND] all these different ones.
So hash tables.
So we ended with hash tables.
We made our own little pseudo
code hashing functions.
We created our own hash tables
with different methods on it.
Now you can just apply that knowledge,
if you want,
to how version control works.
It uses trees and hashing and
all these things all together to
make sure that you don't lose
your code as you change it.
It's really exciting.
You can get curious
about bloom filters and
how it's a kind of hash table
that we use in caching.
Hashing, like I said earlier,
is used in security.
And you can start by thinking about a hash
tree, which combines hashing with a tree.
And this is something that's
really common in P2P networks.
Do people do that still,
where they download stuff from each other?
>> off screen: Torrents,
yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, torrents.
But torrents are still P2P, though, right?
I don't participate in that kind of stuff,
so I don't really know.
>> off screen: When I think
about P2P networks,
I think of like LimeWire or
Kazaa.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah that's
what I'm thinking.
>> off screen: Or
stuff like a specific network,
but torrents kinda replaced that.
So it works person-to-person, but
it's a different-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's called
something else now.
>> off screen: Protocol, yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, got it.
Cool, and
the other thing you can think about is
the complexity of
a distributed hash table,
which underlies Box, or
Dropbox, or Google Drive.
So that's kind of fun.
And then, that's all I got, thank you.
That's your next steps.